 Stomachs are full of hydrochloric acid. This acid helps break down food and kill bacteria. Thankfully, stomachs have a strong lining that prevents the acid from causing pain. The lower esophageal sphincter acts as a door between the esophagus and stomach. It allows food in and does its best to keep stomach acid from escaping. We experience discomfort when stomach acid does escape through the lower esophageal sphincter into the esophagus, which, unlike the stomach, has no protective lining. When this happens, the acid burns the esophagus. This is heartburn, and it can be quite painful. There are three main groups of drugs that treat heartburn. Antacids, H2 antagonists, and proton pump inhibitors. Each fight heartburn differently. An antacid is a weak base. When a base comes into contact with an acid, the acid is neutralized and converted into salt and water. As the antacid moves down the esophagus, it neutralizes escaped acid along the way. Once in the stomach, the antacid lowers the overall acidity of the stomach. Antacids offer immediate, short-term relief by combating the acid head-on. Now, on to H2 antagonists. The stomach is lined with parietal cells that create stomach acid. But the parietal cells only make acid when they are told to do so. Acetylcholine, gastrin, and histamine are the three chemicals that land on specific binding sites on the parietal cell, and in doing so, tell it to produce acid. An H2 antagonist blocks the binding site for histamine. When this happens, histamine cannot bind to the parietal cell and thus cannot signal acid production. The parietal cell therefore only receives two out of three commands to produce acid. This means less stomach acidity and discomfort. H2 antagonists start working in about 30 minutes, and can last up to 12 hours. If they are taken day after day, however, they become less and less effective. Because of this, H2 antagonists may not be the best solution for frequent heartburn. Proton pump inhibitors, or PPIs, target a different part of the parietal cell. Every day, parietal cells are producing numerous proton pumps. The proton pump transports acid from the parietal cell into the stomach. A PPI works by blocking these pumps and stopping acid secretion. Once the PPI binds to a pump, it turns it off for good. But there will be new proton pumps tomorrow, so a PPI must be taken daily. Though PPIs are the slowest of the three drugs to take effect, they are the best solution for relief from frequent heartburn. cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos cos Thank you.